\subsection{Mitigating Overfitting through Data Augmentation}\label{fix_overfitting_issue}
3D policy training is notoriously vulnerable to overfitting~\cite{ze20243d}, often compelling researchers to report peak performance over a range of checkpoints rather than final convergence. We address it by introducing a data augmentation pipeline consisting of three key strategies.
\textbf{1. FPS Randomization:}
Following PointNet++~\cite{qi2017pointnet++}, we randomize the point order in each training step for backbones utilizing FPS. This prevents the model from relying on the deterministic order induced by the sampling algorithm, making the encoder learn more robust spatial representations. \textbf{2. Point Cloud Color Jitter:} Inspired by image augmentations in Qt-Opt~\cite{kalashnikov2018qtoptscalabledeepreinforcement}, we apply color jittering directly to the point cloud's RGB channels. We introduce random variations in brightness (range [$-0.125, 0.125$]), contrast (range [$0.5, 1.5$]), and saturation (range [$0.5, 1.5$]). \textbf{3. Additive Noise and Dropout:} We apply modest Gaussian noise to both point cloud coordinates and proprioceptive vectors. Furthermore, we employ random point dropout, forcing the network to maintain accurate predictions even from incomplete scene representations.

The impact of these augmentations is evidenced by our training and validation curves. In Fig.~\ref{fig:data-aug}, we observe that without augmentation, there are significant fluctuations in the learning curves and a marked decline in success rates as training progresses. The introduction of data augmentation not only stabilized the training process but also significantly improved success rates. This improvement arises because the policy leverages a broader range of out-of-distribution data, thereby enhancing its generalization capabilities.