During the network design process, we systematically analyzed the impact of different encoder sizes and decoder depths on policy performance.

\textbf{Encoder Size}: We have already concluded that more advanced encoders with layer normalization, such as Uni3D\cite{zhou2023uni3d}, perform better than PointNet\cite{qi2017pointnet}. However, for the same type of encoder, using different ViT sizes as backbone results in significant differences in training efficiency and memory usage. Therefore, we investigated the impact of using different ViT sizes in the encoder on performance. Experimental results in Tab.~\ref{tab:encoder_size_comparison} and Tab.~\ref{tab:supptab1} show that selecting proper encoder sizes when dealing with different sizes of point clouds is crucial. We find that under the standard RoboTwin 2.0~\cite{chen2025robotwin} setting which parse the scene into 1024 points, ViT-tiny (53MB) is the optimal choice. While in real-world experiments (see section~\ref{sec:real_exp_detailed}) which uses 8192 points as input, a larger encoder such as ViT-small(115MB) is preferred. These results indicate that as the density of the point cloud increases, it is necessary to appropriately scale the ViT size within the visual encoder to ensure sufficient representational capacity for processing larger-scale point cloud data. Note that we pre-train each encoder using the corresponding number of points as input.

In Tab.~\ref{tab:supptab0}, under the 1024-point setting, we also scale the ViT sizes when dealing with different numbers of demonstrations for training. While we observe significant performance improvements across all encoder sizes as the number of policy training demonstrations increases, the ViT-tiny backbone consistently achieves the best results at 50, 100, and 200 demonstrations.

\textbf{Decoder Depth:}
We observed that the recent 3D policy ManiFlow\cite{yan2025maniflowgeneralrobotmanipulation} consistently uses a 12-layer DitX\cite{peebles2023scalable} decoder across all benchmarks and settings. However, networks with excessively deep layers can lead to severe overfitting. Therefore, we analyzed the impact of different decoder depths (in our method, it refers to the number of attention blocks detailed in Fig.~\ref{fig:pipe} b) on policy performance. As shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:decoder_depth}, when using the standard RoboTwin 2.0~\cite{chen2025robotwin} configuration (50 demonstrations for training), we found that decoders with 4 and 8 attention blocks showed significant performance advantages, and further increasing the decoder size beyond 8 blocks did not lead to performance improvements. Considering the trade-off between performance and efficiency, we adopted a decoder with 4 attention blocks in subsequent experiments. 